# Artist Statement

After reading the feedback received from my proposal, I felt that I needed to move away from my original idea and focus on an idea that I can ultimately challenge
myself in. I decided to create my own take on a space invaders game. For this project I felt that I challenged myself pretty significantly as I was stuck on many aspects in my code such as but no limited to when the user would shoot out a laser. For this to work I had to create the lasers in a keyPressed function and every time I would press that key a laser would be created from the array at user's x and y. The challenge that arrived from this specific code was how to ultimately code this crucial part of the project. There were many trials and errors, but ultimately I decided to take a sophisticated approach to this problem by drawing out my ideas on a piece of paper and seeing how I can incorporate this functionality by using the resources given to me throughout the course. Another aspect of my project that challenged me was when the lasers shot out from the user and would collide with the debris and destroy the debris. I had troubles finding out a way on how to calculate the distance between two separate arrays. By using my knowledge thus far of P5.js, and referring back to the class notes, I finally managed to solve my problem by creating a for loop calculating the total amount of lasers in the array, and then calculating the distance between the debris in the array to the lasers in the array, and ultimately if they were to collide with each other, the debris would be destroyed. The way I came to my conclusion of using the for loop to calculate the distance between the two separate arrays was that I knew that I needed to find a way to find the distance between both arrays, so I figured why not use a for loop to calculate the total amount of lasers in the condition of the array which would be 20, and so this for loop would check each laser in the array up to 20, and then using that information to calculate the distance between the total amount of debris in the array and the total amount of lasers in the array. I had to do this for the crew for when they would collide with the debris, as well as the pickups for when they would collide with the lasers. I as well added a parallax effect with the stars in the background to illustrate stars in space. Consequently, finding a way to calculate the distance between two separate arrays and figuring out how to create lasers in the array after each specific key press was as I felt were my biggest challenges to overcome. Moving on to the user experience side of the project, I wanted to try and create something we haven't learnt in this course yet and that was "buttons". So I took my knowledge learned thus far and I created a rectangle with text over it. I remember from my past exercises that I used the mouse to control my player, and so what I thought would work in my case was that I would console.log the mouseX and mouseY to get their coordinates on the canvas, and create the button on the X and Y coordinates respectively. The way I implemented the functionality of pressing the button and bringing you to the next level was that I put the code under mouseClicked and made it so it would calculate the mouseX and mouseY coordinates and if mouseX and mouseY were both on the desired coordinates then when you clicked on the button, it would bring you to the next level. In the end, even though I only have 1 level to my game I found that I was struggling with some key mechanics in my game that took some time to figure out. I incorporated everything seen in the course into my project but I tried to add more technicality to them by challenging myself in terms of coding and not by the images and or sounds as depicted from my proposal. I also wanted to add an enemy like in space invaders where they are shooting down a laser at you from above, but I didn't have enough time to incorporate that mechanic, as I felt that it would require more time.
